.nh
.TH "ORTFODB" "1" "Apr 2024" "https://ortfo.org/db" "ortfo/db Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
ortfodb-build - Build the database


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBortfodb build  [include-works] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Scan in the projects directory for folders with description.md files (and potential media files) and compile the whole database into a JSON file at \&.

.PP
If  is "-", the output will be written to stdout.

.PP
If [include-works] is provided, only works that match the pattern will be included in the database.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-e\fP, \fB--exporters\fP=[]
	Exporters to enable. If not provided, all the exporters configured in the configuration file will be enabled.

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for build

.PP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--minified\fP[=false]
	Output a minifed JSON file

.PP
\fB--no-cache\fP[=false]
	Disable usage of previous database build as cache for this build (used for media analysis among other things).

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--silent\fP[=false]
	Do not write to stdout

.PP
\fB--workers\fP=12
	Use  workers to build the database. Defaults to the number of CPU cores.

.PP
\fB--write-progress\fP=""
	Write progress information to a file. See https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/ortfo/db#ProgressInfoEvent for more information.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP="ortfodb.yaml"
	config file path

.PP
\fB--scattered\fP[=false]
	Operate in scattered mode. In scattered mode, the description.md files are searched inside `.ortfo' folders in every folder of the database directory, instead of directly in the database directory's folders. See https://github.com/ortfo/


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBortfodb(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
.PP
22-Apr-2024 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
